README.md, before:

# Introduction and licensing
This is a collection of different tools I had to develop.
Everything in this repository is licensed under the Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.

The collection is in a bit of a disarray and documentation need to be improved. 

#To do
- Add tests
- Split CommonTools into vtk only and itk/vtk parts
- Doxygen documentation is outdated. Also need to correct the cmake files for the doxygen

#Contents of subfolders
##BasicMeshoperations
A collection of random tools to use with meshes: mesh converters, mesh smoothers, distance transforms, etc.

##DistTransform
Calculates a distance transform on a mesh from a collection of seeds (uses fast marching)
The distance is calculated from blobs stored in vtkShortArray associated with the vertices. The distance of the point *point_id* to the blob *blob_id* is returned in array "DT" and can be accessed by
```
array = polydata.GetPointData().GetArray('DT')
tuple = array.GetTuple(point_id)
distance = tuple[blob_id]
```
Example image (left - DT, right - red blob):

![Distance Transform Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/distancetransform.gif)


##FillSurfaceHoles
Implementation similar to ReMesh. Detects and fills holes on the surface. Implements P. Liepa "Filling Holes in Meshes" without smoothing. Has 3 smoothing modes: none, inverse edge lengths and cotangent weights. Here's a sample result. 

![Hole Filling Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/HoleFilling.gif)




##LVMeshFromMRI
Creates a smoother mesh using splines longitudinally from short axis contours in MRI and a reference point.
This was ported from VTK 5.x and needs testing. There's also a python script in [Python/mri_mesh_from_contours](https://github.com/cbutakoff/tools/blob/master/Python/mri_mesh_from_contours). 
The input shape are the landmarks in 3D. One of them is the reference point (which is either the first or the last or has a special ID). 
Also it is possible that the IDs are used to differentiate between endocardiumn and epicardium. Check the code.
Example reconstrautcion:

![Remesh Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/mriremesh.gif)

Example from the MRI corrector (only python)

![Remesh Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/mricorrector.gif)


Todo:
- The code needs a better documentation
- Python script was failing with the new VTK/mayavi
- Compilation fails with vmtk from Ubuntu 16.04 distribution. Need a replacement. For now uniform remeshing is disabled.




##Matlab
- A landmarking tool for 2D images (Matlab).
- ASM Fusion script (Matlab). Please cite my paper.

Todo
- Need to add an image

##Python
Some programs written in python. In particular mesh flattening.


##IrisTools
A couple of internal use tools. Probably irrelevant for anyone except myself.

Commit message:

Imported laplace equation based mesh generation

README.md, after:

# Introduction and licensing
This is a collection of different tools I had to develop.
Everything in this repository is licensed under the Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.

The collection is in a bit of a disarray and documentation need to be improved. 

#To do
- Add tests
- Split CommonTools into vtk only and itk/vtk parts
- Doxygen documentation is outdated. Also need to correct the cmake files for the doxygen

#Contents of subfolders
##BasicMeshoperations
A collection of random tools to use with meshes: mesh converters, mesh smoothers, distance transforms, etc.

##DistTransform
Calculates a distance transform on a mesh from a collection of seeds (uses fast marching)
The distance is calculated from blobs stored in vtkShortArray associated with the vertices. The distance of the point *point_id* to the blob *blob_id* is returned in array "DT" and can be accessed by
```
array = polydata.GetPointData().GetArray('DT')
tuple = array.GetTuple(point_id)
distance = tuple[blob_id]
```
Example image (left - DT, right - red blob):

![Distance Transform Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/distancetransform.gif)


##FillSurfaceHoles
Implementation similar to ReMesh. Detects and fills holes on the surface. Implements P. Liepa "Filling Holes in Meshes" without smoothing. Has 3 smoothing modes: none, inverse edge lengths and cotangent weights. Here's a sample result. 

![Hole Filling Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/HoleFilling.gif)




##LVMeshFromMRI
Creates a smoother mesh using splines longitudinally from short axis contours in MRI and a reference point.
This was ported from VTK 5.x and needs testing. There's also a python script in [Python/mri_mesh_from_contours](https://github.com/cbutakoff/tools/blob/master/Python/mri_mesh_from_contours). 
The input shape are the landmarks in 3D. One of them is the reference point (which is either the first or the last or has a special ID). 
Also it is possible that the IDs are used to differentiate between endocardiumn and epicardium. Check the code.
Example reconstrautcion:

![Remesh Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/mriremesh.gif)

Example from the MRI corrector (only python)

![Remesh Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/mricorrector.gif)


Todo:
- The code needs a better documentation
- Python script was failing with the new VTK/mayavi
- Compilation fails with vmtk from Ubuntu 16.04 distribution. Need a replacement. For now uniform remeshing is disabled.



##LaplaceBasedVolMesh 
Generates a volumetric mesh of any structure with two boundaries.
The elements are wedges aligned radially.
This was ported from VTK 5.x and needs testing. Examples can be seen in the following figures
Please cite B. Paun, B. Bijnens, T. Iles, P. A. Iaizzo, C. Butakoff, "Patient Independent Representation of the Detailed
Cardiac Ventricular Anatomy", Medical Image Analysis, Accepted 2016.

![Volumetric Meshing Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/volmeshbump.gif)
![Volumetric Meshing Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbutakoff/tools/master/Pics/layergeneration.gif)

Todo:
- Test



##Matlab
- A landmarking tool for 2D images (Matlab).
- ASM Fusion script (Matlab). Please cite my paper.

Todo
- Need to add an image

##Python
Some programs written in python. In particular mesh flattening.


##IrisTools
A couple of internal use tools. Probably irrelevant for anyone except myself.
